# The Open Organization Maturity Model (Overview)

Adapted from the [Open Organization Maturity Model](https://github.com/open-organization/open-org-maturity-model)

|    | Transparency | Inclusivity | Adaptability | Collaboration | Community |
| -- | ------------ | ----------- | ------------ | ------------- | --------- |
| Level 3: Optimizing | People feel like they are a part of a shared, standard process for collective decision-making where materials are always available; individuals and teams frequently engage in difficult conversations during project execution. | People are open to receiving feedback and creating an environment where others feel safe providing it; there are clear guidelines and channels for encouraging and soliciting diverse points of view while making decisions. | Decision-making and problem-solving frameworks and processes are collectively modifiable, and members feel comfortable adjusting their behaviors in response to changing conditions; failure is seen as an acceptable outcome of experimentation. | People initiate projects in group settings, effectively sharing work by connecting with additional project groups to form cross-functional teams; people collaborate both internally and externally in ways that benefit all involved. | Shared values and principles inform decision-making, conflict resolution, and assessment processes; values and principles are referenced in both verbal and written formats. |
Level 2: Defined | Materials that are part of decision-making practices are available at defined project milestones; there’s a shared repository for collective knowledge, and some members contribute. | People share materials via multiple channels and with multiple methods for feedback; leaders use those channels and methods themselves and openly encourage others to do so. | People share materials via methods that allow others to modify those materials; growth is encouraged and failure is seen as a learning opportunity. | People actively seek opportunities to collaborate as a built-in or natural part of their planning; work is shared by initiating projects in group settings, in the earliest possible stages. | People collectively document shared visions and agreements, make them easily accessible, and reference them often. |
Level 1: Initial | People share resources after release, but in disconnected, fragmented, or siloed systems or repositories; there’s little context for understanding how decisions are made, and decisions are shared for feedback after they are final. | Internal guidelines and channels for encouraging diverse points of view about decisions are established; there’s at least one channel for people to register feedback, and some leaders are open to receiving it. | Members of the organization share materials, but typically in a one-way, "read only" fashion; discussions of failure often involve blame. | Working groups and cross-functional teams tend to be static in terms of membership and skill sets; people work together across teams and orgs, but frequently say it's "too difficult" or "more trouble than it's worth." | People understand that the best ideas win, and leadership responsibilities accrue to people with histories of contribution and commitment; a common language is forming. |
Level 0: Unaware | Individuals and teams do not regularly disclose their plans, products, or processes; people affected by decisions are often surprised to learn about them after they have been made. | No channels are established for providing feedback or learning about projects; leaders make decisions without help, and people are accustomed to receiving direction without any opportunity to provide input. | Information flows in predefined, linear, and often hierarchical directions; power is centralized, and decision-making cannot keep pace with complex and shifting contexts. | Work gets duplicated unnecessarily across teams working toward similar goals; people share only when asked and are not aware of the ways that they can work with other groups. | Teams often have difficulty aligning their work with a common purpose; duplicate work becomes common and stakeholder buy-in decreases.

© 2018 Allison Matlack  
Some rights reserved (CC BY-SA 4.0 International)
